about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
published: true
---
I am a statistician living in Umeå, Sweden. When I'm not spending time in R, doing all kinds of statisticial analyses (both for work and for leisure), I am a hobby (genetic) genealogist and a choir singer (currently on hiatus).

### Education
- Degree of Master of Social Science (120 credits) in Statistics. Uppsala University (2018)
	- Master thesis: [Trends in Forest Soil Acidity: A GAM Based Approach with Application on Swedish Forest Soil Inventory Data](http://www.diva-portal.org/smash/record.jsf?pid=diva2%3A1215453&dswid=3979)
- Degree of Bachelor of Social Science in Statistics. Uppsala University (2016)
	- Minor subjects: Economics and Political Science

### Employments

- **Northern Registry Centre (RCN), Region Västerbotten, Umeå**
  - *Research Support Statistician* (February 2023 - Present)
    - Affiliation with the Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Umeå University

 - **Centre for Occupational and Environmental Medicine (CAMM), Region Stockholm, Stockholm**
   - *Statistician, Unit for Environmental Medicine* (November 2020 - February 2023)
     - Affiliation with Petter Ljungman's research group within the Unit for Environmental Epidemiology at the Institute of Environmental Medicine (IMM), Karolinska Institute

- **Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU), Uppsala** 
  - *Research Assistant in Statistics* (August 2018 - August 2020)

### Publications

#### Peer reviewed articles

Wänman, M., **Betnér, S.**, Esberg, A., Holm, C. K., Isehed, C., Holmlund, A., Palmqvist, P., Lövgren, A., Lindquist, S., Hänström, L., Lerner, U. H., Kindstedt, E., & Lundberg, P. (2024). The PerioGene North Study Uncovers Serum Proteins Related to Periodontitis. *Journal of Dental Research*, *103*(10), 999–1007. [doi:10.1177/00220345241263320](https://doi.org/10.1177/00220345241263320)

Maclachlan, L., **Betnér, S.**, Lind, T., Georgelis, A., & Lõhmus, M. (2025). The association between zero-crossing temperatures and accidents due to icy conditions. *Scandinavian Journal of Public Health*, *53*, 156–161. [doi:10.1177/14034948221148046](https://doi.org/10.1177/14034948221148046)

Ohlsson, J. A., Leong, J. X., Elander, P. H., Ballhaus, F., Holla, S., Dauphinee, A. N., Johansson, J., Lommel, M., Hofmann, G., **Betnér, S.**, Sandgren, M., Schumacher, K., Bozhkov, P. V., & Minina, E. A. (2023). SPIRO – the automated Petri plate imaging platform designed by biologists, for biologists. *Plant Journal*. [doi:10.1111/tpj.16587](https://doi.org/10.1111/tpj.16587)

Stucki, L., **Betnér, S.**, Selander, J., Lõhmus, M., Åkesson, A., & Eriksson, C. (2023). Sociodemographic inequalities in long-term exposure to air pollution, road traffic noise, and greenness: A population-based cohort study of women. *Environmental Epidemiology*, *7*(6), e279. [doi:10.1097/EE9.0000000000000279](https://doi.org/10.1097/EE9.0000000000000279)

Svensson, C., Wickström, H., Forsberg, L., **Betnér, S.**, von Brömssen, C., Reyher, K. K., Bard, A. M., & Emanuelson, U. (2022). Dairy herd health management activities in relation to training of veterinarians in motivational interviewing. *Preventive Veterinary Medicine*, *204*, 105679. [doi:10.1016/j.prevetmed.2022.10567](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prevetmed.2022.10567) 

von Brömssen, C., **Betnér, S.**, Fölster, J., & Eklöf, K. (2020). A toolbox for visualizing trends in large-scale environmental data. *Environmental Modelling & Software*, *133*, 104949. [doi:10.1016/j.envsoft.2020.104949](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2020.104949)

Svensson, C., Forsberg, L., Emanuelson, U., Reyher, K., Bard, A., **Betnér, S.**, von Brömssen, C., Wickström, H. (2020). Dairy veterinarians’ skills in motivational interviewing are linked to client verbal behavior. *Animal*, *14*(10), 2167-2177. [doi:10.1017/S175173112000107X](http://doi.org/10.1017/S175173112000107X)

#### Reports

Eriksson, C., Pyko, A., **Betnér, S.**, Laurell, C., Lauber, A., & Georgelis, A. (2022). Flygbuller – Bromma: Så påverkades stockholmarna av minskat flygbuller under Covid-19-pandemin. Centrum för arbets- och miljömedicin (CAMM), Region Stockholm.

#### Conference Contributions

Eriksson, C., Pyko, A., **Betnér, S.**, Laurell, C., Lauber, A., & Georgelis, A. (2022). *Health impacts of a reduced aircraft noise exposure during the Covid-19-pandemic - A natural experiment in Stockholm, Sweden* [Conference abstract]. Presented at the 34th Annual Conference of the International Society for Environmental Epidemiology (ISEE), Athens, Greece, September 18-21.

Stucki, L., **Betnér, S.**, Selander, J., Lõhmus, M., Åkesson, A., & Eriksson, C. (2022). *Long-term exposure to air pollution, road traffic noise, and surrounding greenness in relation to sociodemographic inequalities – a Swedish population-based cohort study of women* [Conference abstract]. Presented at the 34th Annual Conference of the International Society for Environmental Epidemiology (ISEE), Athens, Greece, September 18-21.

Svensson, C., Wickström, H., Forsberg, L., Reyher, K. K., **Betnér, S.**, von Brömssen, C., Bard, A. M., & Emanuelson, U. (2022). *Swedish dairy cattle veterinarians spend little time on advisory visits despite highly satisfied clients: Can training in Motivational Interviewing help to stimulate efforts?* [Poster presentation]. Presented at the World Buiatrics Congress (WBC), Madrid, Spain, September 4-8.

Svensson, C., Wickström, H., Emanuelson, U., von Brömssen, C., **Betnér, S.**, & Forsberg, L. (2019). *Dairy veterinarians’ skill in Motivational Interviewing is linked to enhanced veterinary herd health management consultations* [Conference contribution]. Presented at the 17th International Conference on Production Diseases in Farm Animals (ICPD), Bern, Switzerland, June 27-29.

### Other Scientific Contributions

In addition to co-authorship, I have also been acknowledged in the following publications, mainly for providing statistical advice and support:

Kutschke, A., Schierz, O., Lövgren, A., Peck, C., Durham, J., & Häggman-Henrikson, B. (2025). Screening Instruments for Temporomandibular Disorders: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. *The Journal of Evidence-Based Dental Practice*, 102204. [doi:10.1016/j.jebdp.2025.102204](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jebdp.2025.102204)

Onkamo, E., Sundström, B., & Wahlin, B. (2025). Minimal seasonal variation in disease parameters of axial spondyloarthritis: a register-based study. *Rheumatology International*, 45, 174. [doi:10.1007/s00296-025-05913-4](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00296-025-05913-4)

Faghihian, H., Böthun, A., Häggman-Henrikson, B., Lalouni, M., Svensson, P., Hellström, F., Andersson, L., & Lövgren, A. (2024). Gender variability in palpation performance for temporomandibular disorders with three different methods: An experimental study. *European Journal of Oral Sciences*, 132, e13026. [doi:10.1111/eos.13026](https://doi.org/10.1111/eos.13026)

Stucki, L., Helte, E., Axelsson, Ö., Selander, J., Lõhmus, M., Åkesson, A., & Eriksson, C. (2024). Long-term exposure to air pollution, road traffic noise and greenness, and incidence of myocardial infarction in women. *Environment International*, 190, 108878. [doi:10.1016/j.envint.2024.108878](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envint.2024.108878)

Rydén, J. (2024). Tales of the Wakeby Tail and Alternatives when Modelling Extreme Floods. *REVSTAT Statistical Journal*, 22(1), 45-60. [doi:10.57805/revstat.v22i1.454](https://doi.org/10.57805/revstat.v22i1.454)

Bard, A., Forsberg, L., Wickström, H., Emanuelson, U., Reyher, K., & Svensson, C. (2023). Clinician motivational interviewing skills in 'simulated' and 'real-life' consultations differ and show predictive validity for 'real life' client change talk under differing integrity thresholds. *PeerJ*, 11, e14634. [doi:10.7717/peerj.14634](https://doi.org/10.7717/peerj.14634)

Cerullo, E., Jones, H. E., Carter, O., Quinn, T. J., Cooper, N. J., & Sutton, A. J. (2022). Meta-analysis of dichotomous and ordinal tests with an imperfect gold standard. *Research Synthesis Methods*, 13(5), 595-611. [doi:10.1002/jrsm.1567](https://doi.org/10.1002/jrsm.1567)

Campos-Pereira, H., Makselon, J., Kleja, D. B., Prater, I., Kögel-Knabner, I., Ahrens, L., & Gustafsson, J. P. (2022). Binding of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFASs) by organic soil materials with different structural composition – Charge- and concentration-dependent sorption behavior. *Chemosphere*, 297, 134167. [doi:10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.134167](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.134167)

Raderschall, C. A., Bommarco, R., Lindström, S. A. M., & Lundin, O. (2021). Landscape crop diversity and semi-natural habitat affect crop pollinators, pollination benefit and yield. *Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment*, 306, 107189. [doi:10.1016/j.agee.2020.107189](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2020.107189)

Anglart, D. (2021). Indicators of mastitis and milk quality in dairy cows: Data, modeling, and prediction in automatic milking systems. *Doctoral Thesis No. 2021:5*, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala. [https://publications.slu.se/?file=publ/show&id=109777](https://publications.slu.se/?file=publ/show&id=109777)

Dahlgren, P. M. (2020). Media Echo Chambers: Selective Exposure and Confirmation Bias in Media Use, and its Consequences for Political Polarization. *Doctoral Thesis*, University of Gothenburg. [http://hdl.handle.net/2077/67023](http://hdl.handle.net/2077/67023)

Anglart, D., Hallén-Sandgren, C., Waldmann, P., Wiedemann, M., & Emanuelson, U. (2020). Modeling cow somatic cell count using sensor data as input to generalized additive models. *Journal of Dairy Research*, 87(3), 282-289. [doi:10.1017/S0022029920000692](https://doi.org/10.1017/S0022029920000692)

Blomberg, I. (2019). A study on Swedish researchers' attitudes and views of the 3Rs. *Master's thesis*, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala. [https://stud.epsilon.slu.se/14307/](https://stud.epsilon.slu.se/14307/)

### Freelance

- Political Charts, SVT (2018 and 2019)

Before the Swedish general election in 2018 I was hired by the Swedish Public Service television company (SVT) to do an analysis of their survey for their political quizzes. The assignment was in essence to describe the political landscapes in a quantitative manner. All parties (and candidates to the Riksdag) was placed in common political spaces, depending on the administrative level. You can see the political charts for all administrative units at [valkompassen.svt.se/2018/](https://valkompassen.svt.se/2018/) and the article on the placements of the candidates for the Riksdag [here](https://www.svt.se/special/hur-lika-ar-kandidaterna-sina-partier/) (both links in Swedish). 

In 2019 SVT hired me to do a similiar analysis of their survey for the political quiz for the European Parliament election. All respondents was placed in an (Swedish) European political space. The article on the analysis can be found at [www.svt.se/datajournalistik/partier-och-kandidater-i-den-eu-politiska-rymden](https://www.svt.se/datajournalistik/partier-och-kandidater-i-den-eu-politiska-rymden/) (in Swedish). 

### Contact me

Contact details below (the icons).

Commit message:

Refine language and clarity in about.md

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
published: true
---
I am a statistician living in Umeå, Sweden. When I'm not using R to carry out all kinds of statistical analyses for work or leisure, I enjoy pursuing my hobbies of (genetic) genealogy and choir singing (currently on hiatus).

### Education
- Degree of Master of Social Science (120 credits) in Statistics. Uppsala University (2018)
	- Master thesis: [Trends in Forest Soil Acidity: A GAM Based Approach with Application on Swedish Forest Soil Inventory Data](http://www.diva-portal.org/smash/record.jsf?pid=diva2%3A1215453&dswid=3979)
- Degree of Bachelor of Social Science in Statistics. Uppsala University (2016)
	- Minor subjects: Economics and Political Science

### Employments

- **Northern Registry Centre (RCN), Region Västerbotten, Umeå**
  - *Research Support Statistician* (February 2023 - Present)
    - Affiliation with the Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Umeå University

 - **Centre for Occupational and Environmental Medicine (CAMM), Region Stockholm, Stockholm**
   - *Statistician, Unit for Environmental Medicine* (November 2020 - February 2023)
     - Affiliation with Petter Ljungman's research group within the Unit for Environmental Epidemiology at the Institute of Environmental Medicine (IMM), Karolinska Institute

- **Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU), Uppsala** 
  - *Research Assistant in Statistics* (August 2018 - August 2020)

### Publications

#### Peer reviewed articles

Wänman, M., **Betnér, S.**, Esberg, A., Holm, C. K., Isehed, C., Holmlund, A., Palmqvist, P., Lövgren, A., Lindquist, S., Hänström, L., Lerner, U. H., Kindstedt, E., & Lundberg, P. (2024). The PerioGene North Study Uncovers Serum Proteins Related to Periodontitis. *Journal of Dental Research*, *103*(10), 999–1007. [doi:10.1177/00220345241263320](https://doi.org/10.1177/00220345241263320)

Maclachlan, L., **Betnér, S.**, Lind, T., Georgelis, A., & Lõhmus, M. (2025). The association between zero-crossing temperatures and accidents due to icy conditions. *Scandinavian Journal of Public Health*, *53*, 156–161. [doi:10.1177/14034948221148046](https://doi.org/10.1177/14034948221148046)

Ohlsson, J. A., Leong, J. X., Elander, P. H., Ballhaus, F., Holla, S., Dauphinee, A. N., Johansson, J., Lommel, M., Hofmann, G., **Betnér, S.**, Sandgren, M., Schumacher, K., Bozhkov, P. V., & Minina, E. A. (2023). SPIRO – the automated Petri plate imaging platform designed by biologists, for biologists. *Plant Journal*. [doi:10.1111/tpj.16587](https://doi.org/10.1111/tpj.16587)

Stucki, L., **Betnér, S.**, Selander, J., Lõhmus, M., Åkesson, A., & Eriksson, C. (2023). Sociodemographic inequalities in long-term exposure to air pollution, road traffic noise, and greenness: A population-based cohort study of women. *Environmental Epidemiology*, *7*(6), e279. [doi:10.1097/EE9.0000000000000279](https://doi.org/10.1097/EE9.0000000000000279)

Svensson, C., Wickström, H., Forsberg, L., **Betnér, S.**, von Brömssen, C., Reyher, K. K., Bard, A. M., & Emanuelson, U. (2022). Dairy herd health management activities in relation to training of veterinarians in motivational interviewing. *Preventive Veterinary Medicine*, *204*, 105679. [doi:10.1016/j.prevetmed.2022.10567](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prevetmed.2022.10567) 

von Brömssen, C., **Betnér, S.**, Fölster, J., & Eklöf, K. (2020). A toolbox for visualizing trends in large-scale environmental data. *Environmental Modelling & Software*, *133*, 104949. [doi:10.1016/j.envsoft.2020.104949](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2020.104949)

Svensson, C., Forsberg, L., Emanuelson, U., Reyher, K., Bard, A., **Betnér, S.**, von Brömssen, C., Wickström, H. (2020). Dairy veterinarians’ skills in motivational interviewing are linked to client verbal behavior. *Animal*, *14*(10), 2167-2177. [doi:10.1017/S175173112000107X](http://doi.org/10.1017/S175173112000107X)

#### Reports

Eriksson, C., Pyko, A., **Betnér, S.**, Laurell, C., Lauber, A., & Georgelis, A. (2022). Flygbuller – Bromma: Så påverkades stockholmarna av minskat flygbuller under Covid-19-pandemin. Centrum för arbets- och miljömedicin (CAMM), Region Stockholm.

#### Conference Contributions

Eriksson, C., Pyko, A., **Betnér, S.**, Laurell, C., Lauber, A., & Georgelis, A. (2022). *Health impacts of a reduced aircraft noise exposure during the Covid-19-pandemic - A natural experiment in Stockholm, Sweden* [Conference abstract]. Presented at the 34th Annual Conference of the International Society for Environmental Epidemiology (ISEE), Athens, Greece, September 18-21.

Stucki, L., **Betnér, S.**, Selander, J., Lõhmus, M., Åkesson, A., & Eriksson, C. (2022). *Long-term exposure to air pollution, road traffic noise, and surrounding greenness in relation to sociodemographic inequalities – a Swedish population-based cohort study of women* [Conference abstract]. Presented at the 34th Annual Conference of the International Society for Environmental Epidemiology (ISEE), Athens, Greece, September 18-21.

Svensson, C., Wickström, H., Forsberg, L., Reyher, K. K., **Betnér, S.**, von Brömssen, C., Bard, A. M., & Emanuelson, U. (2022). *Swedish dairy cattle veterinarians spend little time on advisory visits despite highly satisfied clients: Can training in Motivational Interviewing help to stimulate efforts?* [Poster presentation]. Presented at the World Buiatrics Congress (WBC), Madrid, Spain, September 4-8.

Svensson, C., Wickström, H., Emanuelson, U., von Brömssen, C., **Betnér, S.**, & Forsberg, L. (2019). *Dairy veterinarians’ skill in Motivational Interviewing is linked to enhanced veterinary herd health management consultations* [Conference contribution]. Presented at the 17th International Conference on Production Diseases in Farm Animals (ICPD), Bern, Switzerland, June 27-29.

### Other Scientific Contributions

In addition to co-authorship, I have also been acknowledged in the following publications, mainly for providing statistical advice and support:

Kutschke, A., Schierz, O., Lövgren, A., Peck, C., Durham, J., & Häggman-Henrikson, B. (2025). Screening Instruments for Temporomandibular Disorders: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. *The Journal of Evidence-Based Dental Practice*, 102204. [doi:10.1016/j.jebdp.2025.102204](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jebdp.2025.102204)

Onkamo, E., Sundström, B., & Wahlin, B. (2025). Minimal seasonal variation in disease parameters of axial spondyloarthritis: a register-based study. *Rheumatology International*, 45, 174. [doi:10.1007/s00296-025-05913-4](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00296-025-05913-4)

Faghihian, H., Böthun, A., Häggman-Henrikson, B., Lalouni, M., Svensson, P., Hellström, F., Andersson, L., & Lövgren, A. (2024). Gender variability in palpation performance for temporomandibular disorders with three different methods: An experimental study. *European Journal of Oral Sciences*, 132, e13026. [doi:10.1111/eos.13026](https://doi.org/10.1111/eos.13026)

Stucki, L., Helte, E., Axelsson, Ö., Selander, J., Lõhmus, M., Åkesson, A., & Eriksson, C. (2024). Long-term exposure to air pollution, road traffic noise and greenness, and incidence of myocardial infarction in women. *Environment International*, 190, 108878. [doi:10.1016/j.envint.2024.108878](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envint.2024.108878)

Rydén, J. (2024). Tales of the Wakeby Tail and Alternatives when Modelling Extreme Floods. *REVSTAT Statistical Journal*, 22(1), 45-60. [doi:10.57805/revstat.v22i1.454](https://doi.org/10.57805/revstat.v22i1.454)

Bard, A., Forsberg, L., Wickström, H., Emanuelson, U., Reyher, K., & Svensson, C. (2023). Clinician motivational interviewing skills in 'simulated' and 'real-life' consultations differ and show predictive validity for 'real life' client change talk under differing integrity thresholds. *PeerJ*, 11, e14634. [doi:10.7717/peerj.14634](https://doi.org/10.7717/peerj.14634)

Cerullo, E., Jones, H. E., Carter, O., Quinn, T. J., Cooper, N. J., & Sutton, A. J. (2022). Meta-analysis of dichotomous and ordinal tests with an imperfect gold standard. *Research Synthesis Methods*, 13(5), 595-611. [doi:10.1002/jrsm.1567](https://doi.org/10.1002/jrsm.1567)

Campos-Pereira, H., Makselon, J., Kleja, D. B., Prater, I., Kögel-Knabner, I., Ahrens, L., & Gustafsson, J. P. (2022). Binding of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFASs) by organic soil materials with different structural composition – Charge- and concentration-dependent sorption behavior. *Chemosphere*, 297, 134167. [doi:10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.134167](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.134167)

Raderschall, C. A., Bommarco, R., Lindström, S. A. M., & Lundin, O. (2021). Landscape crop diversity and semi-natural habitat affect crop pollinators, pollination benefit and yield. *Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment*, 306, 107189. [doi:10.1016/j.agee.2020.107189](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2020.107189)

Anglart, D. (2021). Indicators of mastitis and milk quality in dairy cows: Data, modeling, and prediction in automatic milking systems. *Doctoral Thesis No. 2021:5*, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala. [https://publications.slu.se/?file=publ/show&id=109777](https://publications.slu.se/?file=publ/show&id=109777)

Dahlgren, P. M. (2020). Media Echo Chambers: Selective Exposure and Confirmation Bias in Media Use, and its Consequences for Political Polarization. *Doctoral Thesis*, University of Gothenburg. [http://hdl.handle.net/2077/67023](http://hdl.handle.net/2077/67023)

Anglart, D., Hallén-Sandgren, C., Waldmann, P., Wiedemann, M., & Emanuelson, U. (2020). Modeling cow somatic cell count using sensor data as input to generalized additive models. *Journal of Dairy Research*, 87(3), 282-289. [doi:10.1017/S0022029920000692](https://doi.org/10.1017/S0022029920000692)

Blomberg, I. (2019). A study on Swedish researchers' attitudes and views of the 3Rs. *Master's thesis*, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala. [https://stud.epsilon.slu.se/14307/](https://stud.epsilon.slu.se/14307/)

### Freelance

- Political Charts, SVT (2018 and 2019)

Before the 2018 Swedish general election, I was hired by SVT, the Swedish public service television company, to analyze their survey for political quizzes. The assignment essentially required me to describe the political landscape quantitatively. All parties (and candidates for the Riksdag) were placed in common political spaces depending on the administrative level. The political charts for all administrative units can be seen at [valkompassen.svt.se/2018/](https://valkompassen.svt.se/2018/) and an article about the placements of the Riksdag candidates can be found [here](https://www.svt.se/special/hur-lika-ar-kandidaterna-sina-partier/) (both links are in Swedish).

In 2019, SVT hired me to perform a similar analysis of their survey for the political quiz on the European Parliament election. All respondents were placed in a (Swedish) European political space. The article on the analysis can be found at [www.svt.se/datajournalistik/partier-och-kandidater-i-den-eu-politiska-rymden](https://www.svt.se/datajournalistik/partier-och-kandidater-i-den-eu-politiska-rymden/) (in Swedish). 

### Contact me

Contact details below (the icons).
